Good morning.
My name is Kapil Krishnamurthy,
and I work in Core Audio Engineering.
Today we're going to be talking
about audio development for games.
So let's get started.
Now the first thing on the agenda for
today is this notion of simple game.
Under that, we're going to be taking
a look at AV Audio Player.
After that, we're going to move and take
a look at how you can create
and manage your audio assets.
We're going to talk about a few
things that you can do here to
prevent computational overhead.
We'll then move on to
a more complex game.
We'll take a look at spatial
or 3D audio and the OpenAL API.
Finally,
we're going to take a look at audio
session and how that ties in with games.
So let's get started.
All right, so what is a simple game?
If I were to think of a simple game,
I would think of one with maybe
a background score and some sound
effects triggered by objects in
the game or characters in the game.
Thinking of examples, maybe a board game,
like Scrabble, Monopoly,
or maybe a classic game, like Tetris.
So the control that you want here
is control over all of these sounds.
You'd want to be able
to change the volume,
pan the sounds left or right,
maybe loop some sounds.
The API that we recommend for
all of this is AVAudioPlayer.
So AV Audio Player is an audio
API that can play both compressed
and uncompressed formats.
It has four basic playback options: play,
pause, seek, and stop.
These are quite similar to what you
would find on a traditional tape deck.
If you want to play multiple
sounds in your game,
you can use multiple
AV Audio Player objects.
You also have the control
that I just talked about,
that is volume, panning the sounds,
and looping the sounds.
Let's take a look at how
you would create a player.
So the first thing you do here
is you create a URL pointing
to the file in your app bundle.
What's convenient here is that you
don't need to worry about whether the
file is compressed or uncompressed.
AV Audio Player will handle this for you.
So once you create your URL,
you use that to create an
instance of AV Audio Player.
Let's take a look at some
of the properties that
AV Audio Player has to offer.
You can set the volume
on a scale of 0 to 1,
you can pan the sound left or right,
in this example,
the sound is panned entirely to the left.
You can set the number of loops,
or as I like to think of it,
the number of repeats.
So, if it's set to 3,
the sound plays through once
and then loops three times.
You can set the current time,
which is the offset from
the beginning of the file,
and you can also set the delegate.
AV Audio Player has a number of
read-only properties as well,
such as the duration, number of channels,
and the play state.
Now let's look at the playback controls.
Prepare to Play basically allocates
the resources that the player
needs and also performs priming.
This improves the responsiveness of play,
and you would generally call
Prepare to Play when you're
during the initialization phase.
Play plays the sound and
it resumes playing if the
sound is paused or stopped.
What's important here is that
if your sound has been stopped,
play will resume playback
exactly from where you left off.
And if you wanted to start
playback from the beginning,
you need to set the current time to zero.
Pause will pause playback.
What's important with respect
to pause is that the player's
resources are still allocated.
And this is the basic difference
between pause and stop.
When you stop the player,
the resources are deallocated.
Now I once again want
to go over current time.
Current time is the property
that sets the time in seconds.
If you pause or stop a player while
it is playing and you want to reset
the playback from the beginning,
you need to explicitly
set current time to zero.
AV Audio Player also
has delegate methods.
What are delegate methods?
Delegate methods are methods that get
called when a certain event happens.
For instance,
if your audio player finishes playing,
if an interruption begins,
an interruption ends,
or if there's a decode error.
Now let's take a look at some
code as to what you need to
do to prepare your player.
The first thing I do here is
create an instance of the player.
Once I do that, I set the delegate.
And then just prepare the
player to play the sound.
Then during game play time,
I go ahead and I call play
and the sound plays instantly.
All right, so that was an overview
of AV Audio Player.
Let's move on to the next section.
That's tuning your assets,
your audio assets for your game.
We're going to look at a few things
here that you can do to prevent
additional computational overhead.
The first point here that I'd like to
make is that it is important to create
game assets at the same sampling rate.
Now,
sample rate conversions can be expensive,
and you'd like to avoid
this as much as possible.
[Transcript missing]
Now let's talk about
sample rate conversions.
I mentioned in my previous slide
that it's preferable-- or what we
recommend is to have all of your
assets at the same sampling rate.
Now consider an example here where
I have a number of several AV audio
players and each of them playing a
source file at a different sampling rate.
I have my output hardware rendering
at a particular sampling rate.
In this example, it's 44K.
Now, what needs to happen here is that
all of this input material needs
to get rate converted and then
mixed to get to the output rate.
But I need to use four
sample rate converters here.
And how I could avoid this is to have all
of my assets at the same sampling rate.
When I do that,
all of the source material can
be mixed and just has to go
through one sample rate converter.
And so by doing this one simple step,
you eliminate a lot of
overhead computation.
Now, how do you pick a sampling rate?
Well,
this is a question that you can answer,
because it really depends on the types of
sounds that you're playing in your game.
Are you playing sounds with a
lot of low-frequency content,
like maybe explosions,
or sounds with a lot of
high-frequency content,
maybe glass shattering?
Well, what you should do here
is you pick a sample rate,
something that captures the
fidelity of all of these sounds,
and you stick with that sampling
rate for all of your assets.
Now, if you're using uncompressed files,
and you pick a sampling rate of 44K,
then what could happen is your overall
asset size could get really large.
And this brings me to my next point,
which is AAC decoding is inexpensive.
So what we recommend doing in
such a case is encode all of
your source material to AAC,
keep the quality high,
and the asset size small.
Now, to help you create,
manage your assets,
we have some tools on Mac OS X.
And one of these tools
is called AFConvert.
It's a command line tool,
and you can use it to
convert between data formats,
file formats, and sampling rates.
Here's an example of me using AFConvert,
where I have a source
file that has PCM data.
I convert it to the MPEG-4
audio file format with AAC data.
Accompanying AF Convert,
we have another tool called AF Info
that displays file metadata.
Running AF Info on this
file that I just created,
I can see a whole lot of information.
I have information like the file format.
I can look at the data format,
which tells me that I have
one channel of audio.
It's at 44K sampling rate,
and the data is AAC.
So we recommend that you use these tools
and create and manage your audio assets.
Now to talk about the next section,
I'd like to invite
James McCartney from Core Audio.
Hello.
I'm going to talk about working
with compressed audio in your game.
So first I'm going to define a few
terms that we use in Core Audio,
samples, frames, and packets,
so you'll know what we mean
when we say these things.
So a sample is the value of
the amplitude of a waveform at
a particular moment in time.
And the
The samples that you get when you
sample a waveform is called linear
pulse code modulation or linear PCM.
So linear PCM means uncompressed audio.
A frame is a sample per
channel at a particular time.
And so when you have one frame of audio,
that's all the channels
at a particular moment.
Here you can see a left and right sample
from a stream of interleaved stereo.
Then a packet is the smallest
cohesive unit of data for a format.
For linear PCM,
one packet equals one frame.
And for compressed formats,
a packet is some number of
bytes that when you decode them,
you get a bunch of frames of linear PCM.
So this graphic shows the
relationships between a packet of,
in this case,
AAC or any compressed format,
and a bunch of frames of linear PCM.
When you decode the packet of AAC,
you get a bunch of frames of PCM,
and then you can reverse
that and encode back to AAC.
Now, when you're working
with compressed audio,
there's one aspect you
need to be aware of,
and that's leading and trailing frames,
which are also known as
priming and remainder.
Leading frames express the
processing latency of the codec.
It's the amount of time that the codec
needs to build up a context of the audio.
And then trailing frames are the excess
frames within the last packet that are
not part of the audio you are encoding.
They're just extra space
in the last packet.
So here's an example of
what that looks like.
In this example,
I'm compressing 2205 frames of audio,
which is 50 milliseconds of audio.
Now that extensively takes up
a little more than two packets,
but we get five packets of audio
out due to the leading frames,
and then there's extra
space in the last packet,
and that becomes trailing frames.
So AAC has 2,112 leading frames.
Then you have your 2205 frames
of the audio data you encoded,
and then you have 803 frames left over,
and that total is five times
1,024 frames per packet,
or 5,120 frames.
So now when you're decoding this,
this is what the process looks like.
You put in your first packet,
you get 1,024 leading frames out.
You put in your second packet,
you get more leading frames out.
And then you put in your third packet,
and you get the last of
the leading frames out,
and now you're starting
to get your audio out.
and to put in the fourth packet,
you get more of your audio.
Then when you put the last packet in,
you get the rest of your audio
plus whatever extra space
there was in the last packet.
Now all this leading and trailing
frames are stuff to be thrown away.
And then you're left with your
audio that you're encoding
that you're interested in.
And this also illustrates why
you can't butt splice together
packets of compressed data
and expect it to sound okay.
Because those two packets at the
beginning are required to build up
the context for the decode process.
And if you don't have them or if
you've chopped them off and just
stuck some other audio there,
you're going to get like a little bleep
or something when you play it back.
So don't butt splice compressed audio.
Now this is kind of a lot of bother and
you can get rid of having to deal with
it at all by using AV Audio Player.
It handles all the decoding
and getting rid of the leading
and trailing frames for you.
Another API you can use
is Extended Audio File,
which allows you to ignore the
fact or ignore whatever format
the file is in and just deal with
it like it's uncompressed data.
If you were to, on that previous example,
if you were to run AF info on that file,
you can see that there's
five packets in the file.
And AF info will tell you
the number of valid frames,
the number of priming frames,
and the number of remainder
frames in the file,
and then the total number
of frames in the file.
So extended audio file combines an
audio file and an audio converter
within a single object and allows
you to just deal with the file as if
it were uncompressed even though it
might be in some compressed format.
So you can just deal with it as
if it were uncompressed data and
specify your reading and writing
file positions in sample frames.
Okay, now I'm going to talk
about spatial audio.
Kapil went over what a simple game might
be like where you're playing incidental
sounds and a background soundtrack,
and that might have some spatial ambience
baked into the sounds you are playing.
But if you wanted a more
dynamic environment,
spatial environment,
you might want to have a
listener and multiple sources,
and you might want to have panning,
directional cues, reverberation.
And obstruction and occlusion filtering,
which simulates objects
in the environment.
And you'd like it to be low latency.
So what are some spatial cues?
When you hear a sound in an environment,
there are several things that
your cognitive faculties -- you
have some built-in hardwired
signal processing that allows you
to figure out where things are.
And one of them is when you hear
something from one of the speakers,
you can hear the sound of the speaker.
And when you hear
something from one side,
you hear an interaural
intensity difference.
That just means that a sound is
louder in one ear than the other,
and that your brain will
tell you it's over there.
And there's an interaural time delay,
so you'll hear it first in
this ear and then in this ear.
And you can also use that cue
to determine where something is.
Then there's filtering due to the head,
which your brain kind of knows when it
hears certain spectral relationships
between your ears that something
may be in a certain direction.
Then there's also
filtering due to distance,
which is as things get farther away,
they get -- there's some
high frequency attenuation.
There's also reverberation,
which simulates sound
reflections in the environment.
These will depend on the size of the
room and what the walls are made out of,
which affects the decay time
and the high-frequency damping.
Then there's obstruction and occlusion,
which simulate filtering of sound due
to objects in the environment that
block the propagation of the sound.
Obstruction is when the direct path of
the sound is blocked by a column like
this one in the middle of the room.
If the monster is behind the
column and he's screaming at you,
then you're not going to hear his
direct scream perfectly clearly,
but you'll hear the
reverberation unfiltered.
Now in occlusion,
the sound source is in an adjacent space
and you're hearing the reverberation
and the direct sound both being
filtered by the occluding wall.
So in Core Audio,
we implement all these spatial cues
and effects by using a 3D mixer.
And the 3D mixer supports several
spatialization modes and it
supports reverb and filters
for occlusion and occlusion.
It supports reverb and filters
for occlusion and obstruction.
So on iOS, the 3D mixer supports
two specialization modes.
One is equal power panning,
which is just intensity
panning between speakers.
And then there's also a spherical
head specialization mode,
which simulates the interaural
intensity difference,
the interaural time delay cues,
filtering due to the head,
and distance filtering.
Now on the Mac OS X 3D Mixer,
there's a few more spatialization modes.
There's head-related transfer function,
which does spectral filtering of
the sound based on a measured head.
And then there's also for
multi-channel output hardware,
you have sound field and
vector-based panning,
which can give you spatialization
over multiple speakers.
Now, new for iOS 5,
the 3D mixer has reverb,
occlusion and obstruction support.
And so this is the signal
path of the 3D mixer.
There's the input signal,
goes through the occlusion filter,
which is going to filter both
reverb and the direct path.
Then there's a reverb send,
which has a blend control,
which allows you to give a
wet-dry mix to every input source.
Then there's an obstruction filter,
which is just operating
on the direct sound.
The reverb is on its own path now.
Then there's the panner, which, um...
and I are going to talk
about the 3D mixer.
It implements the spatialization mode
for the input source and then there's a
gain on the input source and then all the
inputs and the reverb are mixed together.
So the 3D mixer is a
listener-centered coordinate system.
You specify the location of
sound sources with azimuth,
elevation and distance.
Azimuth is an angle where zero is
directly in front of the listener.
Positive angles are to the right
and negative angles are to the left.
180 degrees is directly
behind the listener.
And then distance is in
meters from the listener.
Then you have elevation,
which is an angle above for
positive numbers or below the
horizon for negative numbers.
And you also have a distance attenuation
curve you can set on the mixer,
which specifies how sound
attenuates over distance.
There's a reference distance below
which the audio is unattenuated,
and then it gets attenuated out to
the maximum distance above which
there's no further attenuation.
Thank you.
So we hope that you use this stuff.
It will give depth to your
game and make it more engaging.
And the more you use it and
the more feedback we get,
the better we can make it.
So please use it.
And now I'm going to bring Kapil
back up to talk about OpenAL.
All right.
So how do you get access
to all of this stuff?
Well, the answer is OpenAL.
What is OpenAL?
OpenAL is an open standard audio
API for 3D or spatial audio.
OpenAL was written,
designed to complement OpenGL,
and they share the
same coordinate system.
We have implementations of
OpenAL on both Mac OS X and on iOS.
So let me run you through
the OpenAL coordinate system.
OpenAL has a right-handed
Cartesian coordinate system.
So if I hold my right hand up with
my thumb pointing to the right,
that's the positive x-axis.
My index finger pointing upwards,
that's the positive y-axis.
And my middle finger pointing towards me,
that's the positive z-axis.
The intersection of all
three of them is the origin.
Now, in OpenAL,
you can not only set source
coordinates and listener coordinates
as this three-dimensional coordinate,
but you can also orient the listener,
which is like the direction and
the rotation of the listener.
What OpenAL does is that it
handles the panning of the sources
when you reorient the listener.
Now, take a look at this example here,
where the listener is
looking straight ahead,
and there are two sources to the right.
So if you were to listen to that audio,
it would sound like there
are two sources to the right.
Now if you reorient the listener like so,
one of the objects is straight on
and the other object is to the left.
So again,
if you were to listen to the audio,
it should sound like one of the
objects is straight ahead of you
and the other one is to the left.
OpenAL handles the translation of
the source coordinates under the hood
and pans these objects correctly.
Now let's take a look
at OpenAL's API objects.
There are four basic API objects,
and it starts off with the context.
The context is basically the
environment that has the listener.
The listener is implicit to the context,
and it also has sources.
Now,
the OpenAL context is built on top of
the 3D mixer that James had talked about.
The 3D mixer has all of these
spatial audio capabilities.
So the next API object are OpenAL sources
that are tied to a context.
Each source has certain properties,
like for instance,
you can set a 3D coordinate on a source,
and sources have sounds
associated with them.
Now, where are these sounds stored?
They're stored in OpenAL buffer objects.
What's important here is that you can
share a buffer with multiple sources.
So if you had a particular sound,
like maybe a gunshot or something,
and you wanted to play
it with multiple sources,
you can associate that
buffer to multiple sources.
The fourth API object
is the OpenAL device,
or it's the output hardware.
The context renders to a device,
and that's how that fits in.
So let's take a look at some
code as to how we can get started
playing a sound with OpenAL.
The first thing I need to
do here is create a device.
That's my output device.
I then take the device ID and
I create a context because my context
is going to render to the device.
Only one context can be
rendering at any given time.
So that's why I take this context
and I make it the current context.
Next, I need to have a source
that's tied to my context.
So I generate a source.
I need to have a sound that
I associate with my source.
So to do that, I then generate a buffer.
Now, I need to get some audio data and
stick it into my OpenAL buffer.
And I'm going to do that with the
help of the extended audio file
API that James had mentioned.
Once I do that,
I get this audio data and I stick
it into my OpenAL buffer using
the AL buffer data static call.
Let's take a look at how
we can get this audio data.
So the first thing I do is once
again I create a URL pointing
to the file in my app bundle.
This file can be
compressed or uncompressed.
It doesn't matter.
A .exe audio file will
handle this for you.
Once you open your file,
you now set up a client format.
What is the client format?
The client format is the format
that you want your data in.
And why is that important?
It's important because OpenAL only
accepts data in certain formats.
Like, it doesn't accept compressed data.
It requires the data that you
give it to be uncompressed.
So I need to set up my client format.
The first thing I do
is I set up some flags.
I want my data to be sign integer.
And the format that I want here
in this particular example is
that I want it to be a 22K,
linear PCM data with the
flags that I've set up,
mono or one channel of audio, and 16 bit.
So once I set up this format,
I just set that property
on the .exe audio file.
Now I've defined my Client Format.
So I am going to get
data in a certain format.
What do I need to do next?
I need to stick it into a buffer.
For that, I have to allocate some space,
some chunk of memory.
How much space do I allocate?
Well, it's the number of frames times
the size of the data type that
I set in my Client Format,
which is 16-bit sign integer.
So once I have that data size,
I allocate that much space,
I create an audio buffer list,
because that's what
extAudioFile.read requires,
and I read this data
into that buffer list.
Now, in this particular example,
I'm reading all of my
data into one buffer.
But that's not what you would
do if you had a larger sound.
What you should do there
is have multiple buffers,
allocate space appropriately,
and load chunks of your sound
into each one of these buffers.
So now that I have the data in my buffer,
I go back to OpenAL and I stick
that data into my OpenAL buffer.
You can see now how all of this ties in.
The format is mono, 16-bit sign integer.
Data pointer is pointing to the location
and memory that contains my data.
And data size is the
amount of size it takes.
Once I've done that, I now attach this
OpenAL buffer to my source,
and the source now has a
sound associated with it.
That was the hard part.
Now all we have to do is just set
some source and listener attributes.
Here I set my source position,
I set a reference distance,
which deals with distance attenuation,
and I want my source to
be looping that sound.
So if you loaded data
from a compressed file,
you observe how easy it
is now to loop this sound.
You didn't have to deal with
any of the complexities like
the leading or trailing frames.
You can just loop this sound,
and it's that easy.
I can then go ahead and set some
listener attributes like the position,
the orientation,
and I'm ready to start playing my sound.
During gameplay,
I can go ahead and change the source
position or the listener position.
And that's an overview
of how you use OpenAL.
This is how OpenAL natively works.
Now we're going to take a
look at OpenAL extensions.
What are OpenAL extensions?
OpenAL extensions are a mechanism
for augmenting the existing API set.
What you need to do is determine if
an extension is present at runtime,
and then you get pointers for
the extension's functions,
and you use those functions.
So we're going to talk
about two extensions today.
One of them is the
Apple Spatial Audio extension,
or the ASA extension,
that has the reverb, occlusion,
and obstruction effects.
This is new to iOS 5 and is
already available on Mac OS X.
The second extension that we're
going to talk about is the
Source Notifications extension,
which is basically a callback
mechanism for source state.
This is new to both iOS 5 and Mac OS X.
So first, the ASA extension.
This comprises of three spatial effects,
the reverb, occlusion, and obstruction.
I'm just going to briefly summarize
what James had talked about.
Reverb is a simulation
of a room environment.
Occlusion is an effect that
simulates a source being in a
different space as the listener.
An obstruction is an effect that
simulates an obstacle in between
the source and the listener.
So there are some listener
properties that you can set.
You can turn the reverb on or off.
It's off by default.
And you can set a global level
from minus 40 dB to plus 40 dB.
We also have a number of preset room
types that you can use in your game.
For instance,
if your game is a first-person
shooter and you go into a particular
environment like a medium chamber,
then you could use the medium
chamber preset and have things
sound the way they should.
If you're looking for a particular sound,
maybe something we don't
have here as a preset,
but that's something that you can tweak.
For instance,
if your game involves an airport
and you think an airport sounds
brighter than a large room,
what you can do is set the large room
preset and then use the EQ that we've
included after that to change the sound
or tweak it in a way that you want.
This EQ is a standard parametric EQ.
With a gain, bandwidth,
and center frequency control.
Now you can also set
certain source properties,
and these are properties you would set
on each source tied to the context.
You can set a send level
that goes from 0 to 1.
0 will be completely dry,
1 is completely wet.
You can set an occlusion level,
which is basically a
low-pass filter effect.
Minus 100 dB is the maximum
amount of attenuation you can set.
0 dB would be no attenuation.
Similar control for the obstruction.
Again, a low-pass filter effect.
You can set an attenuation
level from 0 dB to minus 100 dB.
Here's an example of me
using this extension.
I'm setting a listener property here,
which is just turning the reverb on,
and setting a source property,
which is setting a certain amount
of send level for a source.
Let's take a look at a quick
demo of the ASA extension.
So what I have here is a particular
environment that has my source
that's moving up here and a
listener that's moving down here.
Now just to make things interesting,
I'm going to assume that
my source is a demon or a
monster or something like that.
And this is what it sounds like, dry.
[Transcript missing]
Now,
let's take the monster and the listener
and put them in a medium-sized chamber.
That's what the first preset is,
and let's hear what that sounds like.
I can move the listener around as well.
. . . Now you get an idea
of what that sounds like.
Let's say that this is just a
little too close for comfort.
So we're going to move all of
this to a bigger environment.
Let's assume that I have a basement
below my house that's really
massive and has no furniture.
For an echoey environment simulation,
here's what that would sound like.
*Loud Vibration*
Now when you use the reverb,
you want it to be a subtle effect.
It's not a very in-your-face effect.
But this kind of gives you an
idea of what it sounds like.
Now, let's assume that I get out of the
basement and I slam the door shut.
And this is what it sounds like.
So you can hear the source continue
to growl away in the basement.
And as I move or walk up the
stairs away from the basement,
this is what it sounds like.
So what you're hearing here
is the occlusion filter.
And what this simulates is the listener
being in a different space as the source.
So that's a quick example of what
the ASA extension sounds like.
And this is just scratching the surface.
There's so much more you can do with it.
So go ahead, try it,
and give us feedback.
So let's move on to the next extension.
The second extension that we have here is
a source state notifications extension.
What this extension achieves is that it
eliminates the need for polling to check
for a change in source state or a change
in the number of buffers processed.
The user is notified via
a callback mechanism.
Now, what are the notification
types that you can sign up for?
One is the source state.
There are four basic source
state types in OpenAL.
They are initial, playing, paused,
and stopped.
If you have a change in source state,
then you will be notified with
the source ID and the new state.
You can also be notified if
a new buffer is processed.
Or if you've queued up several
buffers and that entire queue
of buffers has looped over.
Now here's how you do
things natively in OpenAL.
It is a common practice to queue
up a number of buffers on a source.
So let's assume that your
sound is divided into chunks,
you put them into different buffers,
and then you queue that up on the source.
As each buffer gets processed one by one,
you take that out,
and then you load more data into it,
and then you queue that up once again.
So in OpenAL,
what you are required to do is
to poll continuously to check
the number of buffers processed.
But this is expensive,
and we don't recommend this anymore.
Instead, what you should do today is use
the extension that we've provided.
You register for a notification
that is with a source ID.
I want to be notified when
a new buffer is processed,
and call me at my method,
which is handleNotification.
And what happens is that every
time a new buffer gets processed,
you get called there with your
source type and the notification.
And you do something based on the
source type and the notification ID.
You can sign up for any of the
notifications that I talked about,
which is source state, buffers processed,
or if the entire queue has looped.
So just to quickly summarize OpenAL,
we first talked about the coordinate
system and the listener's orientation.
I talked about the API objects,
which is the context, the sources,
the buffers, and the device.
We took a look at some code,
and then we moved on
to OpenAL extensions,
where we talked about the
Apple Spatial Audio extension and
the Source Notifications extension.
Let's move on to the last
section in our talk today,
which is audio session and games.
Now audio session is an API that deals
with the application's interaction
with this complex audio environment.
But I'm just going to talk
about a section of it today.
We have an entire talk on audio session
that's going to be held tomorrow morning,
so I encourage you to
go and watch that one.
But what I'm going to talk
about is certain things that
are directly relevant to games.
I'm going to talk about what
audio session category you pick,
how you detect if
background audio is running,
and how you respond to interruptions.
So I'm going to start off by
talking about the ambient category.
In the ambient category,
audio obeys the ringer switch
and audio obeys the screen lock.
What that means is that if a user is
playing your game and he's sitting in a
public environment where he doesn't want
the game sounds to disturb other people,
he goes and he turns off the ringer
switch and he continues to see
the graphics and all the videos,
but there's no audio.
How do you pick between this
ambient category or solo ambient?
That brings us to our next topic,
which is, is your game's audio primary?
Now, you could have a user who's
playing background audio
like the iPod or Pandora,
and then he opens your game.
So you're left with a
decision to make here,
which is,
do you want to interrupt the background
audio and play your game's soundtrack,
or do you not want to do that?
Amen.
What you could do here is
present the user with a
prompt in your game that says,
Play game sounds.
If the user picks yes,
then what he wants you to do is
interrupt the background audio.
So you pick the solo ambient category
and you play your game soundtrack.
If the user picks no,
then don't play your soundtrack.
You pick the ambient category
and don't play your soundtrack.
Continue to let Pandora or the iPod play.
Now,
why this doesn't always work is because
in most cases users don't know what
you're talking about when you present
them with a generic prompt like that.
So we don't recommend
doing things this way.
How you should approach this problem
is use the audio session property
to check if other audio is playing.
If other audio is playing,
you pick the ambient category.
If other audio isn't playing,
you pick the solo ambient category.
Now, what are interruptions?
Interruptions can be
higher-priority audio,
like a phone call or the
clock's alarm going off.
And what this does to your application is
that it makes your session inactive and
your currently playing audio is stopped.
How do you recover from an interruption?
Well, this really depends on
the API that you're using.
But in general,
you reactivate some state.
Now, we've talked about two APIs today,
AV Audio Player and OpenAIR.
In AV Audio Player's case,
when you have an interruption,
the AV Audio Players are all stopped.
You need to override the
AV Audio Player's delegate methods
if you want to show this in your
UI or if you want to restart playback
once the interruption has gone away.
So taking a look at that,
here's what it would look like.
Begin interruption,
playback automatically stops.
You can show it in the UI if you want to.
And when the interruption goes away,
you can resume or restart
playback of sounds if that's
what you desire in your game.
And once again, you can update the UI.
In the case of OpenAL,
you need to use the AV audio
session delegate methods.
And what you have to do here is first
invalidate the context when you're
interrupted and make the context current
once again when the interruption ends.
So taking a look at the AV audio
session delegate methods,
when the interruption comes in or begins,
I make my current context equal null,
or I'm invalidating the context.
When the interruption goes away,
I set my session active once again,
and I make my context
the current context.
So to summarize that,
when you're using audio session
and you're dealing with games,
you have to decide on what audio
session category you want to use.
And that's dependent on whether
background audio is playing or not.
And you have to handle
interruptions in your application.
So to sum all of this up,
we started off by talking
about a simple game,
an AV audio player.
We moved on to audio assets.
We talked about sample rate conversions,
and we also talked
about compressed files.
We then moved on to a complex game where
we took a look at spatial audio and how
you can use OpenAL and its extensions.
And finally,
we talked about audio session and games.
So a related session is audio
session management for iOS,
which is tomorrow morning at 11:30 a.m.
Alan and Eric are evangelists at Apple,
and you can contact them if
you have questions again.
There's a wealth of information
online at developer.apple.com.
We also have the Apple Developer Forums
where you can post questions.
So I hope all of this will help
you in your game development
and we wish you good luck.
Thank you.